>>> SO HERE I AM, GREAT SCHOOLS,
>>> SO HERE I AM, GREAT SCHOOLS, GREAT BRAIN, GREAT SUCCESS.
GREAT BRAIN, GREAT SUCCESS. I WENT TO AN IVY LEAGUE SCHOOL.
I WENT TO AN IVY LEAGUE SCHOOL. I’M VERY HIGHLY EDUCATED.
I’M VERY HIGHLY EDUCATED. AND I WAS A GOOD STUDENT.
AND I WAS A GOOD STUDENT. I ALWAYS HEAR ABOUT THE ELITE,
I ALWAYS HEAR ABOUT THE ELITE, THEY’RE ELITE?
THEY’RE ELITE? I WENT TO BETTER SCHOOLS THAN
I WENT TO BETTER SCHOOLS THAN THEY DID.
THEY DID. I WAS A BETTER STUDENT THAN THEY
I WAS A BETTER STUDENT THAN THEY WERE.
WERE. I WAS THE FIRST IN MY CLASS AT
I WAS THE FIRST IN MY CLASS AT THE WHARTON’S SCHOOL OF FINANCE.
THE WHARTON’S SCHOOL OF FINANCE. >> TURNS OUT NONE OF THAT IS
>> TURNS OUT NONE OF THAT IS TRUE.
TRUE. WELCOME BACK TO "HARDBALL."
WELCOME BACK TO "HARDBALL." THAT WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP TOUTING
THAT WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP TOUTING HIS ACADEMIC SUCCESS, CLAIMING
HIS ACADEMIC SUCCESS, CLAIMING HE WAS FIRST IN HIS CLASS AT
HE WAS FIRST IN HIS CLASS AT WHARTON, HE WASN’T.
WHARTON, HE WASN’T. BECAUSE IN 1968, THE YEAR TRUMP
BECAUSE IN 1968, THE YEAR TRUMP GRADUATED FROM BHARTEN, HIS
GRADUATED FROM BHARTEN, HIS SCHOOL PAPER "THE DAILY
SCHOOL PAPER "THE DAILY PENNSYLVANIAN" PUBLISHED THE
PENNSYLVANIAN" PUBLISHED THE LIST OF 56 STUDENTS WHO WERE ON
LIST OF 56 STUDENTS WHO WERE ON THE WHARTON DEAN’S LIST THAT
THE WHARTON DEAN’S LIST THAT YEAR.
YEAR. TRUMP’S NAME IS NOT AMONG THEM.
TRUMP’S NAME IS NOT AMONG THEM. IN CONTRAST ACCORDING TO "THE
IN CONTRAST ACCORDING TO "THE HARVARD CRIMSON" BARACK OBAMA
HARVARD CRIMSON" BARACK OBAMA GRADUATED MAGNUM COME LAUDY FROM
GRADUATED MAGNUM COME LAUDY FROM HARVARD LAW SCHOOL.
HARVARD LAW SCHOOL. I’M JOINED BY CHAIR, MICHAEL
I’M JOINED BY CHAIR, MICHAEL STEELE.
STEELE. HYPOCRISY IS PROBABLY A WORD
HYPOCRISY IS PROBABLY A WORD WE’VE OVERUSED WITH THIS GUY,
WE’VE OVERUSED WITH THIS GUY, BUT BARACK OBAMA WAS AN
BUT BARACK OBAMA WAS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BENEFICIARY
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BENEFICIARY OR SOMETHING, HE WASN’T WHO HE
OR SOMETHING, HE WASN’T WHO HE CLAIMED TO BE.
CLAIMED TO BE. AND IT TURNS OUT TRUMP MAY WANT
AND IT TURNS OUT TRUMP MAY WANT WELL BE ANYWHERE NEAR THE CLAIM
WELL BE ANYWHERE NEAR THE CLAIM HE MADE, THAT HE WAS MR.
HE MADE, THAT HE WAS MR. STUDENT.
STUDENT. >> CHRIS, HE’S LIKE THE WIZARD
>> CHRIS, HE’S LIKE THE WIZARD OF OZ.
OF OZ. HE’S HIDING BEHIND A CURTAIN.
HE’S HIDING BEHIND A CURTAIN. REMEMBER WHEN THAT MOVIE
REMEMBER WHEN THAT MOVIE HAPPENED AND THEY OPENED THE
HAPPENED AND THEY OPENED THE CURTAIN, IT’S THIS LITTLE GUY, A
CURTAIN, IT’S THIS LITTLE GUY, A LITTLE PERSON LIKE ME.
LITTLE PERSON LIKE ME. >> AND WHAT DID HE SAY?
>> AND WHAT DID HE SAY? PAY NO ATTENTION TO THE MAN
PAY NO ATTENTION TO THE MAN BEHIND THE CURTAIN.
BEHIND THE CURTAIN. >> THAT’S A GOOD ONE.
>> THAT’S A GOOD ONE. BUT HERE’S THE BOTTOM LINE, HE’S
BUT HERE’S THE BOTTOM LINE, HE’S HIDING BEHIND THAT CURTAIN WITH
HIDING BEHIND THAT CURTAIN WITH HIS LIES.
HIS LIES. HIS GRADES, HE’S AFRAID PEOPLE
HIS GRADES, HE’S AFRAID PEOPLE WILL FIND OUT WHAT THEY ARE.
WILL FIND OUT WHAT THEY ARE. THE PHONY BONE SPUR THING, HE’S
THE PHONY BONE SPUR THING, HE’S AFRAID PEOPLE WILL FIND OUT WHAT
AFRAID PEOPLE WILL FIND OUT WHAT THAT IS.
THAT IS. HIS TAX RETURNS, HE MAY NOT BE
HIS TAX RETURNS, HE MAY NOT BE AS RICH AS PEOPLE THINK.
AS RICH AS PEOPLE THINK. SO IT’S A REALLY SINKS.
SO IT’S A REALLY SINKS. AND BY LASHING OUT AT OBAMA, IT
AND BY LASHING OUT AT OBAMA, IT JUST SHOWS THAT HE CAN’T GET
JUST SHOWS THAT HE CAN’T GET OVER HIS JEALOUS AT PRESIDENT
OVER HIS JEALOUS AT PRESIDENT OBAMA.
OBAMA. >> MICHAEL, YOUR THEORY, I WOULD
>> MICHAEL, YOUR THEORY, I WOULD LO YOUR THEORY, YOUR BACKSTORY
LO YOUR THEORY, YOUR BACKSTORY ON THIS.
ON THIS. WHY WAS HE OBSESSED WITH
WHY WAS HE OBSESSED WITH DIMINISHING THE FIRST
DIMINISHING THE FIRST AFRICAN-AMERICAN -- LET’S FACE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN -- LET’S FACE IT -- TO BE PRESIDENT OF THE
IT -- TO BE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES. THAT’S A FACT.
THAT’S A FACT. THAT ISN’T IDENTITY POLITICS OR
THAT ISN’T IDENTITY POLITICS OR ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. EVERYBODY IN AMERICA SHOULD HAVE
EVERYBODY IN AMERICA SHOULD HAVE BEEN PROUD OF THAT FACT.
BEEN PROUD OF THAT FACT. AND HE WASN’T.
AND HE WASN’T. HE WAS FURIOUS ABOUT IT.
HE WAS FURIOUS ABOUT IT. >> WELL, I THINK SOME OF IT IS
>> WELL, I THINK SOME OF IT IS GENERATIONAL.
GENERATIONAL. YOU THINK, YOU KNOW, AT THAT --
YOU THINK, YOU KNOW, AT THAT -- AT THE AGE OF THE PRESIDENT, THE
AT THE AGE OF THE PRESIDENT, THE TIME PERIOD IN WHICH HE GREW UP,
TIME PERIOD IN WHICH HE GREW UP, CERTAINLY IN THE 1950s, AND THE
CERTAINLY IN THE 1950s, AND THE ATTITUDE THAT A LOT OF WHITES OF
ATTITUDE THAT A LOT OF WHITES OF THAT GENERATION HAD ABOUT BLACK
THAT GENERATION HAD ABOUT BLACK SUCCESS.
SUCCESS. IT WAS NOT -- IT WAS NOT
IT WAS NOT -- IT WAS NOT ACHIEVED, IT WAS GIVEN TO THEM.
ACHIEVED, IT WAS GIVEN TO THEM. IT WAS NOT EARNED, IT WAS
IT WAS NOT EARNED, IT WAS SOMEHOW APPROPRIATED TO THEM.
SOMEHOW APPROPRIATED TO THEM. AND THERE GREW OVER TIME A
AND THERE GREW OVER TIME A CERTAIN RESENTMENT AROUND THAT,
CERTAIN RESENTMENT AROUND THAT, BECAUSE THERE’S ALWAYS THIS
BECAUSE THERE’S ALWAYS THIS SENSE THAT, WELL, THE ONLY
SENSE THAT, WELL, THE ONLY REASON YOU’RE THERE IS BECAUSE
REASON YOU’RE THERE IS BECAUSE SOMEONE ELSE GOT YOU THERE.
SOMEONE ELSE GOT YOU THERE. AND I THINK THAT PLAYED ITSELF
AND I THINK THAT PLAYED ITSELF OUT.
OUT. THAT’S WHY WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
THAT’S WHY WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE SUCCESS OF OBAMA, I MEAN, HE’S A
SUCCESS OF OBAMA, I MEAN, HE’S A SMART GUY.
SMART GUY. HE’S MAGNA CUM LAUDE, WENT TO
HE’S MAGNA CUM LAUDE, WENT TO GREAT SCHOOLS AND HE SHOWED
GREAT SCHOOLS AND HE SHOWED THAT.
THAT. HE WOULD OFTEN BOAST THAT
HE WOULD OFTEN BOAST THAT HIMSELF.
HIMSELF. AND THIS WOULD JUST TWERK THESE
AND THIS WOULD JUST TWERK THESE GUYS LIKE HIM.
GUYS LIKE HIM. THE IRONY OF IT IS, SHOW YOUR
THE IRONY OF IT IS, SHOW YOUR GRADES, AND IF THEY’RE NOT THAT
GRADES, AND IF THEY’RE NOT THAT GREAT, SO WHAT?
GREAT, SO WHAT? YOU CAN CREATE THE NARRATIVE,
YOU CAN CREATE THE NARRATIVE, YEAH, I HAD A TOUGH TIME IN
YEAH, I HAD A TOUGH TIME IN SCHOOL, BUT LOOK WHAT I’VE BEEN
SCHOOL, BUT LOOK WHAT I’VE BEEN ABLE TO DO, I BUILT AN EMPIRE
ABLE TO DO, I BUILT AN EMPIRE FINANCIALLY, I’M SUCCESSFUL IN
FINANCIALLY, I’M SUCCESSFUL IN BUSINESS, AND I’M NOW PRESIDENT
BUSINESS, AND I’M NOW PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES WITH A
OF THE UNITED STATES WITH A C-PLUS AVERAGE, RIGHT?
C-PLUS AVERAGE, RIGHT? SO THERE IS -- BUT TRUMP CAN’T
SO THERE IS -- BUT TRUMP CAN’T SEE IT THAT WAY.
SEE IT THAT WAY. IT’S THE COMPETITIVE NATURE, BUT
IT’S THE COMPETITIVE NATURE, BUT I THINK THERE’S ALSO JUST THAT
I THINK THERE’S ALSO JUST THAT TINGE OF LOOKING AT A VERY
TINGE OF LOOKING AT A VERY SUCCESSFUL BLACK MAN AND GOING,
SUCCESSFUL BLACK MAN AND GOING, HMM.
HMM. >> WHAT DID HE MEAN, BARBARA,
>> WHAT DID HE MEAN, BARBARA, SENATOR, WHAT DID HE MEAN --
SENATOR, WHAT DID HE MEAN -- WE’RE RELATIVES, ACTUALLY.
WE’RE RELATIVES, ACTUALLY. DISTANT, BUT WE ARE.
DISTANT, BUT WE ARE. WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO SAY, NOBODY
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO SAY, NOBODY KNEW HIM IN SCHOOL?
KNEW HIM IN SCHOOL? THAT WASN’T KNOCKING HIM -- THAT
THAT WASN’T KNOCKING HIM -- THAT WAS SAYING HE WAS A PHANTOM OF
WAS SAYING HE WAS A PHANTOM OF SOME KIND!
SOME KIND! THAT HE WASN’T REALLY IN THESE
THAT HE WASN’T REALLY IN THESE SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. >> HE HAS A -- I DON’T WANT TO
>> HE HAS A -- I DON’T WANT TO SAY HATRED, HE HAS THIS COMPLEX
SAY HATRED, HE HAS THIS COMPLEX ABOUT BARACK OBAMA.
ABOUT BARACK OBAMA. AND YOU KNOW, I HEAR WHAT
AND YOU KNOW, I HEAR WHAT MICHAEL SEAS SAYING ABOUT OTHER
MICHAEL SEAS SAYING ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE SAYING, OH, WELL, CERTAIN
PEOPLE SAYING, OH, WELL, CERTAIN AFRICAN-AMERICANS GOT AWAY WITH
AFRICAN-AMERICANS GOT AWAY WITH IT, GOT A DEAL.
IT, GOT A DEAL. YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT TRUMP WHO
YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT TRUMP WHO WAS NOT ONLY BORN WITH A SILVER
WAS NOT ONLY BORN WITH A SILVER SPOON IN HIS MOUTH, MICHAEL, BUT
SPOON IN HIS MOUTH, MICHAEL, BUT AN ENTIRE -- YOU KNOW, SET OF
AN ENTIRE -- YOU KNOW, SET OF DISHES AND THE REFRIGERATOR
DISHES AND THE REFRIGERATOR THROWN IN.
THROWN IN. THIS IS A GUY WHO HAD $7 MILLION
THIS IS A GUY WHO HAD $7 MILLION BEFORE HE CAN SAY "HELLO,
BEFORE HE CAN SAY "HELLO, DADDY."
DADDY." >> AND BY THE WAY, FOR ALL OF
>> AND BY THE WAY, FOR ALL OF THOSE WHO QUIBBLE ABOUT BARACK
THOSE WHO QUIBBLE ABOUT BARACK OBAMA’S ACADEMIC SUCCESS, HE WAS
OBAMA’S ACADEMIC SUCCESS, HE WAS NAMED EDITOR OF THE HARVARD LAW
NAMED EDITOR OF THE HARVARD LAW REVIEW IN A BLIND TEST.
REVIEW IN A BLIND TEST. NOBODY KNEW HE WAS
NOBODY KNEW HE WAS AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN. THAT’S NOT HOW IT WORKS.
THAT’S NOT HOW IT WORKS. HE WON ON MERIT AND ACADEMIC
HE WON ON MERIT AND ACADEMIC ABILITY.
ABILITY. THAT’S WHY HE GOT THESE ACADEMIC
THAT’S WHY HE GOT THESE ACADEMIC HONORS.
HONORS. ANYWAY, DURING THE 2016
ANYWAY, DURING THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN WHILE "THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN WHILE "THE WASHINGTON POST" WAS WORKING ON
WASHINGTON POST" WAS WORKING ON A STORY ABOUT THE TIME TRUMP
A STORY ABOUT THE TIME TRUMP SPENT IN THE NEW YORK ACADEMY,
SPENT IN THE NEW YORK ACADEMY, HE TOLD "THE POST," I’M NOT
HE TOLD "THE POST," I’M NOT LEGISLATE YOU
LEGISLATE YOU LETTING YOU LOOK AT ANYTHING.
LETTING YOU LOOK AT ANYTHING. WHY WOULD I LET YOU LOOK AT MY
WHY WOULD I LET YOU LOOK AT MY RECORDS, YOU’RE DOING A LOUSY
RECORDS, YOU’RE DOING A LOUSY STORY.
STORY. SO I THINK HE KNEW THE PROBLEM,
SO I THINK HE KNEW THE PROBLEM, MICHAEL.
MICHAEL. >> YEAH!
>> YEAH! EXACTLY.
EXACTLY. THE GRADES PROBABLY AREN’T THE
THE GRADES PROBABLY AREN’T THE GREATEST AND THE BEST EVER IN
GREATEST AND THE BEST EVER IN THE WORLD OF GRADING.
THE WORLD OF GRADING. SO WHAT?
SO WHAT? BUT THAT’S THE NATURE OF THE
BUT THAT’S THE NATURE OF THE MAN.
MAN. HE IS CONSTANTLY IN COMPETITIVE
HE IS CONSTANTLY IN COMPETITIVE MODE.
MODE. EVERYTHING IS TRANSACTIONAL.
EVERYTHING IS TRANSACTIONAL. EVERYTHING HAS TO REDOUND TO HIS
EVERYTHING HAS TO REDOUND TO HIS BENEFIT AND ULTIMATELY MAKE HIM
BENEFIT AND ULTIMATELY MAKE HIM LOOK GOOD.
LOOK GOOD. AND SO HE CAN’T SHOW A "B" WHEN
AND SO HE CAN’T SHOW A "B" WHEN HE’S BEEN CASTIGATING SOMEONE
HE’S BEEN CASTIGATING SOMEONE LIKE BARACK OBAMA, WHOM EVERYONE
LIKE BARACK OBAMA, WHOM EVERYONE KNOWS TO BE SMART.
KNOWS TO BE SMART. AND YOU KNOW, IN A WAY THAT
AND YOU KNOW, IN A WAY THAT WOULD MAKE THAT SOMEHOW
WOULD MAKE THAT SOMEHOW PROBLEMATIC FOR HIM.
PROBLEMATIC FOR HIM. SO HE’S GOT TO BE COMPETITIVE
SO HE’S GOT TO BE COMPETITIVE WITH HIM AND PUT HIM DOWN IN THE
WITH HIM AND PUT HIM DOWN IN THE PROCESS.
PROCESS. >> HE’S PROBABLY MAD AT YOU FOR
>> HE’S PROBABLY MAD AT YOU FOR USING THE WORD REDOUND.
USING THE WORD REDOUND. THESE WORDS ARE DRIVING HIM
THESE WORDS ARE DRIVING HIM CRAZY.
CRAZY. SENATOR?
SENATOR? SENATOR?
SENATOR? >> YOU KNOW, IT’S NOT ABOUT
>> YOU KNOW, IT’S NOT ABOUT COMPETITIVE.
COMPETITIVE. I THINK HE CAN COMPETE WITH
I THINK HE CAN COMPETE WITH BARACK OBAMA IN ANY LEVEL
BARACK OBAMA IN ANY LEVEL WHATSOEVER.
WHATSOEVER. I WORKED WITH BARACK OBAMA.
I WORKED WITH BARACK OBAMA. I SERVED WITH HIM.
I SERVED WITH HIM. BRILLIANT DOESN’T BEGIN TO
BRILLIANT DOESN’T BEGIN TO DESCRIBE HIM.
DESCRIBE HIM. AND YOU KNOW WHAT’S SO GREAT
AND YOU KNOW WHAT’S SO GREAT ABOUT HIM?
ABOUT HIM? HE’S AN OLD SOUL.
HE’S AN OLD SOUL. HE GETS HISTORY.
HE GETS HISTORY. HE UNDERSTANDS IT.
HE UNDERSTANDS IT. BUT TO ME, IT’S ABOUT TRUMP’S
BUT TO ME, IT’S ABOUT TRUMP’S NARCISSISM.
NARCISSISM. HE WANTS PEOPLE TO THINK HE’S
HE WANTS PEOPLE TO THINK HE’S THE SMARTEST GUY IN THE ROOM.
THE SMARTEST GUY IN THE ROOM. YOU HAVE CLIPS OF THAT.
YOU HAVE CLIPS OF THAT. HE TELLS US, PEOPLE, I WAS THE
HE TELLS US, PEOPLE, I WAS THE GREATEST, YOU KNOW?
GREATEST, YOU KNOW? SO HE CAN’T STAND THE TRUTH,
SO HE CAN’T STAND THE TRUTH, BECAUSE THE TRUTH WILL BRING HIM
BECAUSE THE TRUTH WILL BRING HIM DOWN.
DOWN. >> I WAS THE GREATEST THAT WAS